And one night in the middle of the winter, my father must have smelled smoke and went
outside and saw the synagogue flame with us in it. So he managed to get all of us out,
my mother again pregnant and the baby in arms. And there we could see a group of Nazi youths
with bricks in their hands. They were determined to exterminate us as well as the synagogue.
Synagogue went down and in the, whatever it was, with the fires going and people shouting,
non-Jewish people got us away. We were in our nightclothes and no shoes and they hid us in
an ice cellar which in those days was a hollowed out hill filled with ice. There was no such thing as
fidgets. We were, these people who lived in the big house put us into the ice cellar when there
was virtually mass hysteria because they couldn't find us and they wanted to kill us. And we knew
they wanted to kill us. But the rest of the day of that night is complete blank. Actually it was
only four years ago that I saw the ice cellar and I met the daughter of the people who saved us.
How did you get, how were you saved? Well as I said, in this mass hysteria they smuggled us away
from the fire and these non-Jewish people and they hid us in the ice cellar. Until the next day,
by next day of course the hysteria which when a group of Hitler youths get together, they wind
one another up as we now say. And it's just one hysteric mob and all they wanted to do was kill us.